README.md, before:

[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d0e13853fa82d32e650a/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/5dcbb7cd09f28e014c00f396/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d0e13853fa82d32e650a/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/5dcbb7cd09f28e014c00f396/test_coverage)

# Muffi

1. [Muffi](#muffi)
   1. [What is Muffi?](#what-is-muffi)
      1. [What are the benefits of using Muffi?](#what-are-the-benefits-of-using-muffi)
      2. [Muffi challenges](#muffi-challenges)
   2. [Key features](#key-features)
   3. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
      1. [Start a new project](#start-a-new-project)
      2. [Replace license](#replace-license)
      3. [Configure the project](#configure-the-project)
      4. [Setup colors](#setup-colors)
      5. [Configure Code Climate](#configure-code-climate)
      6. [Configure CD](#configure-cd)
      7. [Configure i18n tasks](#configure-i18n-tasks)
      8. [Setup mailing](#setup-mailing)
      9. [Setup basic auth](#setup-basic-auth)
      10. [Capybara drivers](#capybara-drivers)
      11. [Capybara Screenshots in CI](#capybara-screenshots-in-ci)
      12. [Set up Dependabot](#set-up-dependabot)
      13. [Set up database backups](#set-up-database-backups)
   4. [Contributing](#contributing)
   5. [License](#license)
   6. [About Abtion](#about-abtion)

## What is Muffi?

Muffi is a project template maintained by [Abtion](https://abtion.com/) and used to kick start
Ruby on Rails applications.

### What are the benefits of using Muffi?

- Much less time spent on "first-time setup":
  - Projects starting from the Muffi template include all the libraries we typically use at Abtion on the latest version.
  - Basic functionality is there from the start; we can have the app live from the moment we start, start sending emails, or log in with a user to the system.
- Lots of decisions are already made:
  - We've made these same decisions many times - now we know which decisions are the right ones.
- Fully functional test setup.
  - Tests are not an afterthought. They are an integrated part of the development flow.
  - Reliable software from day one.
- Easy for developers to switch between similar projects.
  - Easy to scale projects up and down. Developers know what to expect when they join the project. They've seen similar things before.
  - Less reliance on specific people - the whole team can contribute even when a team member is not present.

### Muffi challenges

- We want to be open to multiple unknown futures, with one single template.
- It is difficult to decide what belongs to Muffi (feature creep)

## Key features

- Heroku ready - Review apps, staging and production
- Uses [devise](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise)
- Uses [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions)
- Uses [Jest](https://github.com/facebook/jest)
- Uses [rspec](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails)
- Uses [rubocop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop)
- Uses [simplecov](https://github.com/colszowka/simplecov)
- Uses [i18n-tasks](https://github.com/glebm/i18n-tasks)

## Getting Started

### Start a new project

To start a new project with Muffi, simply create a new repository on GitHub
using this repository as a template.
(You loose the Muffi history, adding everything in Muffi at that time as a single initial commit)

Alternatively, import Muffi into a new repository by going to https://github.com/new/import and specify https://github.com/abtion/muffi.git
(You retain all the Muffi history)

####

Set up branch protection rules:

- Require status checks before merging (all except bundle-audit).
- Require branches to be up to date.
- Require signed commits.

### Replace license

Replace the contents of `LICENSE.md` with the following:

```
Copyright (C) Abtion - All Rights Reserved
Unauthorized copying of this project, via any medium is strictly prohibited.
Proprietary and confidential.
```

### Configure the project

1. Edit `application.rb` and change the module name and configuration settings.
2. Edit the database names in `database.yml`
3. Use script for replacing `ProjectNamePascal` e.g. in all files:
   - `bin/replace-project-names` (uses the folder name)
   - Or `bin/replace-project-names <param-case-name>`
4. `mv README.example.md README.md`

### Setup colors

`colors.json` must be updated so match the client's company colors/design guide.

If there's a designer on the project, get that person to fill in all the colors and nuances.

If there's no designer present, replace the colors with company colors where it makes sense. Use a tool like the following for creating nuances:
https://tailwind.simeongriggs.dev/

All the predefined colors are required for the built-in components to work:

- Contrast colors are picked from the "light" and "dark" colours.
- Contextual colors (primary, secondary, etc.) are used for component variants.

### Configure Code Climate

1. Login to CodeClimate and add your project
2. Go to the `Repo Settings` -> `Test coverage`
3. Enable `Enforce Diff Coverage` with a threshold of 100%
4. Copy the `TEST REPORTER ID`
5. Visit `https://github.com/abtion/<Project name>/settings/secrets`
6. Add a new secret: `CC_TEST_REPORTER_ID` with the copied value from codeclimate

### Configure CD

1. Create staging heroku app based on the muffi template.
   1. Visit: https://dashboard.heroku.com/new?org=abtion&template=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fabtion%2Fmuffi
   2. Fill in the name with `<PROJECT-NAME>-staging`.
   3. Select europe as region.
   4. Create a new pipeline for the project `<PROJECT-NAME>`.
   5. Fill in required env vars (read the field descriptions for guidance).
   6. Press the deploy button.
   7. Take a 5 minute break while heroku sets up app and pipeline.
   8. Sometimes the app will build, but it doesn't go on with the next steps and there is a not very informative error message.
      - If so the app has likely been deployed, but not added to the pipeline. You will then have to manually create the pipeline and add the app to it.
2. Create the production app the same way as the staging app, only this time:
   - Name the app `<PROJECT-NAME>-production`.
   - Add the app to the `<PROJECT-NAME>` pipeline rather than creating one.
   - Add the app to the "production" stage of the pipeline
3. When app creation has succeeded, press "manage app" to get to the app, then select the pipeline in the breadcrumb
4. Connect the pipeline to the project's github repo. (There should be a "Connect to Github" button).
5. Enable review apps.
6. Add config vars for review apps:
   - `SEED_ADMIN_EMAIL`
   - `SEED_ADMIN_INITIAL_PASSWORD`
   - `HTTP_AUTH_USERNAME`
   - `HTTP_AUTH_PASSWORD`
   - `MAIL_FROM`

### Configure i18n tasks

If you need to ignore specific translation keys, follow this process:

1. Open `config/i18n-tasks.yml`.
2. Go to `ignore_unused` or `ignore_missing` depending on whether you need to
   ignore unused translations, e.g., if a gem adds new translation keys, or
   missing translations.
3. Add your key(s) to the section in the YAML file.
4. See the configuration file for examples on more advanced usages.

### Setup mailing

1. Register and add to 1Password new sendinblue account
   1. Register: https://app.sendinblue.com/account/register
   2. Email: Client google group account
   3. Password: Generate in 1Password
2. You must validate a phone number in order to start sending mails.
3. Generate SENDINBLUE keys
   1. Go to SMTP & API under user settings
   2. Click on SMTP Tab
   3. Create a new SMTP KEY.
   4. Copy smtp key value to `SENDINBLUE_PASSWORD` variable on clients heroku project
   5. Copy login to `SENDINBLUE_USERNAME` variable on clients heroku project
4. If you want the review apps to send emails: Copy the staging app's Sendinblue credentials and add them to the review apps config vars.
5. Setup DNS for production domain (when the production domain is ready):
   1. Go to: https://account.sendinblue.com/senders
   2. Open "Domains"
   3. Add a new domain
   4. Fill in domain name and check the option to digitally sign emails, then continue
   5. Add each of the shown DNS records to the client's DNS setup.
      The DNS provider differs from client to client depending on whether we bought the domain or they did it themselves.
      If we don't have access, we provide the settings to the client so they can set it up.
   6. It will take an hour or so for new records to propagate, be patient.
   7. Back on the sendinblue page, validate each setting.
   8. When all settings are validated, the setup is complete.

### Setup basic auth

For added security we want to add basic auth to our review/staging environments.

1. Go to the Review/Staging app in the Heroku dashboard.
2. Add environment variables for:
3. `HTTP_AUTH_USERNAME`
4. `HTTP_AUTH_PASSWORD`

### Capybara drivers

This project registers two Capybara drivers.

Set the environment variable `CAPYBARA_DRIVER` to `headless_chrome` (default) to run specs without
opening Chrome, or use `chrome` to open the browser automatically.

### Capybara Screenshots in CI

When a spec using Capybara fails in CI a screenshot will be saved under Github Actions Artifacts. If need be you can download the `capybara.zip` file and extract it to get to the screenshots.

### Set up Dependabot

To allow Dependabot to auto-merge security updates, you need to add a secret
token to the settings of your project on GitHub. Follow these steps:

1. Acquire a token
   1. Sign into github using the client github account. (More info [here](https://inside.abtion.com/tools_and_services/access_and_permissions.html#github))
   2. Create an access token (use [this](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token) guide)
2. Set up the token
   1. Go to "Settings" > "Secrets" for the repository.
   2. Click "New secret".
   3. Set the name to `AUTO_MERGE_TOKEN` and insert the token.
   4. Click "Add secret".

### Set up database backups

To enable DB backups, see this guide: https://github.com/abtion/heroku-db-backup-s3

## Contributing

Muffi is maintained by [_Abtioneers_](#about-abtion), but open for anyone to suggest improvements and bugfixes.

One abtioneer is currently responsible for the project at Abtion, with support from other employees.

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/abtion/muffi/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

[Unlicense](https://unlicense.org/)

## About Abtion

[![Abtion](abtion.png "Abtion")](https://abtion.com/)

[Abtion](https://abtion.com/) is a technology company building software and
services that make life better, easier and more fun. Zeros and ones are the
backbone of our work, and together with a diverse mix of designers, developers
and strategists, we create websites, mobile- and web applications with a purpose.

Commit message:

Add instructions to verify email account (#800)
* Add instructions to verify email account

Using Abtion's shared phone number (still on a test phase)

* Fix list item numbers

Co-authored-by: runephilosof-abtion <57357936+runephilosof-abtion@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d0e13853fa82d32e650a/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/5dcbb7cd09f28e014c00f396/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d0e13853fa82d32e650a/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/repos/5dcbb7cd09f28e014c00f396/test_coverage)

# Muffi

1. [Muffi](#muffi)
   1. [What is Muffi?](#what-is-muffi)
      1. [What are the benefits of using Muffi?](#what-are-the-benefits-of-using-muffi)
      2. [Muffi challenges](#muffi-challenges)
   2. [Key features](#key-features)
   3. [Getting Started](#getting-started)
      1. [Start a new project](#start-a-new-project)
      2. [Replace license](#replace-license)
      3. [Configure the project](#configure-the-project)
      4. [Setup colors](#setup-colors)
      5. [Configure Code Climate](#configure-code-climate)
      6. [Configure CD](#configure-cd)
      7. [Configure i18n tasks](#configure-i18n-tasks)
      8. [Setup mailing](#setup-mailing)
      9. [Setup basic auth](#setup-basic-auth)
      10. [Capybara drivers](#capybara-drivers)
      11. [Capybara Screenshots in CI](#capybara-screenshots-in-ci)
      12. [Set up Dependabot](#set-up-dependabot)
      13. [Set up database backups](#set-up-database-backups)
   4. [Contributing](#contributing)
   5. [License](#license)
   6. [About Abtion](#about-abtion)

## What is Muffi?

Muffi is a project template maintained by [Abtion](https://abtion.com/) and used to kick start
Ruby on Rails applications.

### What are the benefits of using Muffi?

- Much less time spent on "first-time setup":
  - Projects starting from the Muffi template include all the libraries we typically use at Abtion on the latest version.
  - Basic functionality is there from the start; we can have the app live from the moment we start, start sending emails, or log in with a user to the system.
- Lots of decisions are already made:
  - We've made these same decisions many times - now we know which decisions are the right ones.
- Fully functional test setup.
  - Tests are not an afterthought. They are an integrated part of the development flow.
  - Reliable software from day one.
- Easy for developers to switch between similar projects.
  - Easy to scale projects up and down. Developers know what to expect when they join the project. They've seen similar things before.
  - Less reliance on specific people - the whole team can contribute even when a team member is not present.

### Muffi challenges

- We want to be open to multiple unknown futures, with one single template.
- It is difficult to decide what belongs to Muffi (feature creep)

## Key features

- Heroku ready - Review apps, staging and production
- Uses [devise](https://github.com/plataformatec/devise)
- Uses [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/actions)
- Uses [Jest](https://github.com/facebook/jest)
- Uses [rspec](https://github.com/rspec/rspec-rails)
- Uses [rubocop](https://github.com/bbatsov/rubocop)
- Uses [simplecov](https://github.com/colszowka/simplecov)
- Uses [i18n-tasks](https://github.com/glebm/i18n-tasks)

## Getting Started

### Start a new project

To start a new project with Muffi, simply create a new repository on GitHub
using this repository as a template.
(You loose the Muffi history, adding everything in Muffi at that time as a single initial commit)

Alternatively, import Muffi into a new repository by going to https://github.com/new/import and specify https://github.com/abtion/muffi.git
(You retain all the Muffi history)

####

Set up branch protection rules:

- Require status checks before merging (all except bundle-audit).
- Require branches to be up to date.
- Require signed commits.

### Replace license

Replace the contents of `LICENSE.md` with the following:

```
Copyright (C) Abtion - All Rights Reserved
Unauthorized copying of this project, via any medium is strictly prohibited.
Proprietary and confidential.
```

### Configure the project

1. Edit `application.rb` and change the module name and configuration settings.
2. Edit the database names in `database.yml`
3. Use script for replacing `ProjectNamePascal` e.g. in all files:
   - `bin/replace-project-names` (uses the folder name)
   - Or `bin/replace-project-names <param-case-name>`
4. `mv README.example.md README.md`

### Setup colors

`colors.json` must be updated so match the client's company colors/design guide.

If there's a designer on the project, get that person to fill in all the colors and nuances.

If there's no designer present, replace the colors with company colors where it makes sense. Use a tool like the following for creating nuances:
https://tailwind.simeongriggs.dev/

All the predefined colors are required for the built-in components to work:

- Contrast colors are picked from the "light" and "dark" colours.
- Contextual colors (primary, secondary, etc.) are used for component variants.

### Configure Code Climate

1. Login to CodeClimate and add your project
2. Go to the `Repo Settings` -> `Test coverage`
3. Enable `Enforce Diff Coverage` with a threshold of 100%
4. Copy the `TEST REPORTER ID`
5. Visit `https://github.com/abtion/<Project name>/settings/secrets`
6. Add a new secret: `CC_TEST_REPORTER_ID` with the copied value from codeclimate

### Configure CD

1. Create staging heroku app based on the muffi template.
   1. Visit: https://dashboard.heroku.com/new?org=abtion&template=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fabtion%2Fmuffi
   2. Fill in the name with `<PROJECT-NAME>-staging`.
   3. Select europe as region.
   4. Create a new pipeline for the project `<PROJECT-NAME>`.
   5. Fill in required env vars (read the field descriptions for guidance).
   6. Press the deploy button.
   7. Take a 5 minute break while heroku sets up app and pipeline.
   8. Sometimes the app will build, but it doesn't go on with the next steps and there is a not very informative error message.
      - If so the app has likely been deployed, but not added to the pipeline. You will then have to manually create the pipeline and add the app to it.
2. Create the production app the same way as the staging app, only this time:
   - Name the app `<PROJECT-NAME>-production`.
   - Add the app to the `<PROJECT-NAME>` pipeline rather than creating one.
   - Add the app to the "production" stage of the pipeline
3. When app creation has succeeded, press "manage app" to get to the app, then select the pipeline in the breadcrumb
4. Connect the pipeline to the project's github repo. (There should be a "Connect to Github" button).
5. Enable review apps.
6. Add config vars for review apps:
   - `SEED_ADMIN_EMAIL`
   - `SEED_ADMIN_INITIAL_PASSWORD`
   - `HTTP_AUTH_USERNAME`
   - `HTTP_AUTH_PASSWORD`
   - `MAIL_FROM`

### Configure i18n tasks

If you need to ignore specific translation keys, follow this process:

1. Open `config/i18n-tasks.yml`.
2. Go to `ignore_unused` or `ignore_missing` depending on whether you need to
   ignore unused translations, e.g., if a gem adds new translation keys, or
   missing translations.
3. Add your key(s) to the section in the YAML file.
4. See the configuration file for examples on more advanced usages.

### Setup mailing

1. Register and add to 1Password new sendinblue account
   1. Register: https://app.sendinblue.com/account/register
   2. Email: Client google group account
   3. Password: Generate in 1Password
2. You must validate a phone number in order to start sending mails.
   1. Use Abtion's shared phone number 60 57 59 72 and check the code in #access-and-permissions (Slack)
3. Generate SENDINBLUE keys
   1. Go to SMTP & API under user settings
   2. Click on SMTP Tab
   3. Create a new SMTP KEY.
   4. Copy smtp key value to `SENDINBLUE_PASSWORD` variable on clients heroku project
   5. Copy login to `SENDINBLUE_USERNAME` variable on clients heroku project
4. If you want the review apps to send emails: Copy the staging app's Sendinblue credentials and add them to the review apps config vars.
5. Setup DNS for production domain (when the production domain is ready):
   1. Go to: https://account.sendinblue.com/senders
   2. Open "Domains"
   3. Add a new domain
   4. Fill in domain name and check the option to digitally sign emails, then continue
   5. Add each of the shown DNS records to the client's DNS setup.
      The DNS provider differs from client to client depending on whether we bought the domain or they did it themselves.
      If we don't have access, we provide the settings to the client so they can set it up.
   6. It will take an hour or so for new records to propagate, be patient.
   7. Back on the sendinblue page, validate each setting.
   8. When all settings are validated, the setup is complete.

### Setup basic auth

For added security we want to add basic auth to our review/staging environments.

1. Go to the Review/Staging app in the Heroku dashboard.
2. Add environment variables for:
3. `HTTP_AUTH_USERNAME`
4. `HTTP_AUTH_PASSWORD`

### Capybara drivers

This project registers two Capybara drivers.

Set the environment variable `CAPYBARA_DRIVER` to `headless_chrome` (default) to run specs without
opening Chrome, or use `chrome` to open the browser automatically.

### Capybara Screenshots in CI

When a spec using Capybara fails in CI a screenshot will be saved under Github Actions Artifacts. If need be you can download the `capybara.zip` file and extract it to get to the screenshots.

### Set up Dependabot

To allow Dependabot to auto-merge security updates, you need to add a secret
token to the settings of your project on GitHub. Follow these steps:

1. Acquire a token
   1. Sign into github using the client github account. (More info [here](https://inside.abtion.com/tools_and_services/access_and_permissions.html#github))
   2. Create an access token (use [this](https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token) guide)
2. Set up the token
   1. Go to "Settings" > "Secrets" for the repository.
   2. Click "New secret".
   3. Set the name to `AUTO_MERGE_TOKEN` and insert the token.
   4. Click "Add secret".

### Set up database backups

To enable DB backups, see this guide: https://github.com/abtion/heroku-db-backup-s3

## Contributing

Muffi is maintained by [_Abtioneers_](#about-abtion), but open for anyone to suggest improvements and bugfixes.

One abtioneer is currently responsible for the project at Abtion, with support from other employees.

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/abtion/muffi/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

[Unlicense](https://unlicense.org/)

## About Abtion

[![Abtion](abtion.png "Abtion")](https://abtion.com/)

[Abtion](https://abtion.com/) is a technology company building software and
services that make life better, easier and more fun. Zeros and ones are the
backbone of our work, and together with a diverse mix of designers, developers
and strategists, we create websites, mobile- and web applications with a purpose.
